configs/sasm_reppoints/README.md, before:

# SASM
> SASM-RepPoints

<!-- [ALGORITHM] -->
## Abstract

Coming soon!

## Results and models

DOTA1.0

#### RepPoints
|    Backbone   |    mAP   | Angle | lr schd | Mem (GB) | Inf Time (fps) | Aug | Batch Size | Configs | Download |
|:------------:|:----------:|:-----------:|:---------:|:---------:|:---------:|:---------:|:---------:|:---------:|:-------------:|
| ResNet50 (1024,1024,200) | 59.44 | oc | 1x | 3.45 | 15.6 | - | 2 | [rotated_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc](../rotated_reppoints/rotated_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc.py) |  [model](https://download.openmmlab.com/mmrotate/v0.1.0/rotated_reppoints/rotated_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc/rotated_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc-d38ce217.pth) &#124; [log](https://download.openmmlab.com/mmrotate/v0.1.0/rotated_reppoints/rotated_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc/rotated_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc_20220205_145010.log.json)
| ResNet50 (1024,1024,200) | 66.45 | oc | 1x | 3.53 | 15.3 | - | 2 | [sasm_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc](./sasm_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc.py) |  [model](https://download.openmmlab.com/mmrotate/v0.1.0/sasm/sasm_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc/sasm_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc-6d9edded.pth) &#124; [log](https://download.openmmlab.com/mmrotate/v0.1.0/sasm/sasm_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc/sasm_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc_20220205_144938.log.json)


## Citation
AAAI 2022
Coming soon!

Commit message:

[Fix] Fix bug in rotated_reppoints_head (#246)
* [Docs] Update the introduction of SASM (AAAI'22) (#184)

* [Docs] Update the introduction of SASM (AAAI'22)

* Update citation

* [Fix] 'RoIAlignRotated' object has no attribute 'output_size' (#213)

* Update rotate_single_level_roi_extractor.py

* Update rotate_single_level_roi_extractor.py

* [Fix] Fix bug in rotated_reppoints_head

Co-authored-by: Wenwei Zhang <40779233+ZwwWayne@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Yue Zhou <592267829@qq.com>

configs/sasm_reppoints/README.md, after:

# SASM
> [Shape-Adaptive Selection and Measurement for Oriented Object Detection](https://www.aaai.org/AAAI22Papers/AAAI-2171.HouL.pdf)

<!-- [ALGORITHM] -->
## Abstract

<div align=center>
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/zytx121/image-host/main/imgs/sasm.jpg" width="800"/>
</div>

The development of detection methods for oriented object detection remains a challenging task. A considerable obstacle
is the wide variation in the shape (e.g., aspect ratio) of objects. Sample selection in general object detection has been
widely studied as it plays a crucial role in the performance of the detection method and has achieved great progress.
However, existing sample selection strategies still overlook some issues: (1) most of them ignore the object shape information;
(2) they do not make a potential distinction between selected positive samples; and (3) some of them can only be applied
to either anchor-free or anchor-based methods and cannot be used for both of them simultaneously. In this paper, we
propose novel flexible shape-adaptive selection (SA-S) and shape-adaptive measurement (SA-M) strategies for oriented
object detection, which comprise an SA-S strategy for sample selection and SA-M strategy for the quality estimation of
positive samples. Specifically, the SA-S strategy dynamically selects samples according to the shape information and
characteristics distribution of objects. The SA-M strategy measures the localization potential and adds quality information
on the selected positive samples. The experimental results on both anchor-free and anchor-based baselines and four publicly
available oriented datasets (DOTA, HRSC2016, UCASAOD, and ICDAR2015) demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method

## Results and models

DOTA1.0

#### RepPoints
|    Backbone   |    mAP   | Angle | lr schd | Mem (GB) | Inf Time (fps) | Aug | Batch Size | Configs | Download |
|:------------:|:----------:|:-----------:|:---------:|:---------:|:---------:|:---------:|:---------:|:---------:|:-------------:|
| ResNet50 (1024,1024,200) | 59.44 | oc | 1x | 3.45 | 15.6 | - | 2 | [rotated_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc](../rotated_reppoints/rotated_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc.py) |  [model](https://download.openmmlab.com/mmrotate/v0.1.0/rotated_reppoints/rotated_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc/rotated_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc-d38ce217.pth) &#124; [log](https://download.openmmlab.com/mmrotate/v0.1.0/rotated_reppoints/rotated_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc/rotated_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc_20220205_145010.log.json)
| ResNet50 (1024,1024,200) | 66.45 | oc | 1x | 3.53 | 15.3 | - | 2 | [sasm_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc](./sasm_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc.py) |  [model](https://download.openmmlab.com/mmrotate/v0.1.0/sasm/sasm_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc/sasm_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc-6d9edded.pth) &#124; [log](https://download.openmmlab.com/mmrotate/v0.1.0/sasm/sasm_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc/sasm_reppoints_r50_fpn_1x_dota_oc_20220205_144938.log.json)


## Citation
```
@inproceedings{hou2022shape,
    title={Shape-Adaptive Selection and Measurement for Oriented Object Detection},
    author={Hou, Liping and Lu, Ke and Xue, Jian and Li, Yuqiu},
    booktitle={Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence},
    year={2022}
}

```
