docs/en/get_started.md, before:

## Test a model

- single GPU
- single node multiple GPU
- multiple node

You can use the following commands to infer a dataset.

```shell
# single-gpu
python tools/test.py ${CONFIG_FILE} ${CHECKPOINT_FILE} [optional arguments]

# multi-gpu
./tools/dist_test.sh ${CONFIG_FILE} ${CHECKPOINT_FILE} ${GPU_NUM} [optional arguments]

# multi-node in slurm environment
python tools/test.py ${CONFIG_FILE} ${CHECKPOINT_FILE} [optional arguments] --launcher slurm
```


Examples:

Inference RotatedRetinaNet on DOTA-1.0 dataset, which can generate compressed files for online [submission](https://captain-whu.github.io/DOTA/evaluation.html). (Please change the [data_root](../../configs/_base_/datasets/dotav1.py) firstly.)
```shell
python ./tools/test.py  \
  configs/rotated_retinanet/rotated_retinanet_obb_r50_fpn_1x_dota_le90.py \
  checkpoints/SOME_CHECKPOINT.pth --format-only \
  --eval-options submission_dir=work_dirs/Task1_results
```
or
```shell
./tools/dist_test.sh  \
  configs/rotated_retinanet/rotated_retinanet_obb_r50_fpn_1x_dota_le90.py \
  checkpoints/SOME_CHECKPOINT.pth 1 --format-only \
  --eval-options submission_dir=work_dirs/Task1_results
```

You can change the test set path in the [data_root](../../configs/_base_/datasets/dotav1.py) to the val set or trainval set for the offline evaluation.
```shell
python ./tools/test.py \
  configs/rotated_retinanet/rotated_retinanet_obb_r50_fpn_1x_dota_le90.py \
  checkpoints/SOME_CHECKPOINT.pth --eval mAP
```
or
```shell
./tools/dist_test.sh  \
  configs/rotated_retinanet/rotated_retinanet_obb_r50_fpn_1x_dota_le90.py \
  checkpoints/SOME_CHECKPOINT.pth 1 --eval mAP
```

You can also visualize the results.
```shell
python ./tools/test.py \
  configs/rotated_retinanet/rotated_retinanet_obb_r50_fpn_1x_dota_le90.py \
  checkpoints/SOME_CHECKPOINT.pth \
  --show-dir work_dirs/vis
```



## Train a model

### Train with a single GPU

```shell
python tools/train.py ${CONFIG_FILE} [optional arguments]
```

If you want to specify the working directory in the command, you can add an argument `--work_dir ${YOUR_WORK_DIR}`.

### Train with multiple GPUs

```shell
./tools/dist_train.sh ${CONFIG_FILE} ${GPU_NUM} [optional arguments]
```

Optional arguments are:

- `--no-validate` (**not suggested**): By default, the codebase will perform evaluation during the training. To disable this behavior, use `--no-validate`.
- `--work-dir ${WORK_DIR}`: Override the working directory specified in the config file.
- `--resume-from ${CHECKPOINT_FILE}`: Resume from a previous checkpoint file.

Difference between `resume-from` and `load-from`:
`resume-from` loads both the model weights and optimizer status, and the epoch is also inherited from the specified checkpoint. It is usually used for resuming the training process that is interrupted accidentally.
`load-from` only loads the model weights and the training epoch starts from 0. It is usually used for finetuning.

### Train with multiple machines

If you run MMRotate on a cluster managed with [slurm](https://slurm.schedmd.com/), you can use the script `slurm_train.sh`. (This script also supports single machine training.)

```shell
[GPUS=${GPUS}] ./tools/slurm_train.sh ${PARTITION} ${JOB_NAME} ${CONFIG_FILE} ${WORK_DIR}
```

If you have just multiple machines connected with ethernet, you can refer to
PyTorch [launch utility](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/distributed_deprecated.html#launch-utility).
Usually it is slow if you do not have high speed networking like InfiniBand.

### Launch multiple jobs on a single machine

If you launch multiple jobs on a single machine, e.g., 2 jobs of 4-GPU training on a machine with 8 GPUs,
you need to specify different ports (29500 by default) for each job to avoid communication conflict.

If you use `dist_train.sh` to launch training jobs, you can set the port in commands.

```shell
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3 PORT=29500 ./tools/dist_train.sh ${CONFIG_FILE} 4
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=4,5,6,7 PORT=29501 ./tools/dist_train.sh ${CONFIG_FILE} 4
```

If you use launch training jobs with Slurm, you need to modify the config files (usually the 6th line from the bottom in config files) to set different communication ports.

In `config1.py`,

```python
dist_params = dict(backend='nccl', port=29500)
```

In `config2.py`,

```python
dist_params = dict(backend='nccl', port=29501)
```

Then you can launch two jobs with `config1.py` and `config2.py`.

```shell
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3 GPUS=4 ./tools/slurm_train.sh ${PARTITION} ${JOB_NAME} config1.py ${WORK_DIR}
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=4,5,6,7 GPUS=4 ./tools/slurm_train.sh ${PARTITION} ${JOB_NAME} config2.py ${WORK_DIR}
```

Commit message:

[Feature] Add multi machine dist_train (#143)

docs/en/get_started.md, after:

## Test a model

- single GPU
- single node multiple GPU
- multiple node

You can use the following commands to infer a dataset.

```shell
# single-gpu
python tools/test.py ${CONFIG_FILE} ${CHECKPOINT_FILE} [optional arguments]

# multi-gpu
./tools/dist_test.sh ${CONFIG_FILE} ${CHECKPOINT_FILE} ${GPU_NUM} [optional arguments]

# multi-node in slurm environment
python tools/test.py ${CONFIG_FILE} ${CHECKPOINT_FILE} [optional arguments] --launcher slurm
```


Examples:

Inference RotatedRetinaNet on DOTA-1.0 dataset, which can generate compressed files for online [submission](https://captain-whu.github.io/DOTA/evaluation.html). (Please change the [data_root](../../configs/_base_/datasets/dotav1.py) firstly.)
```shell
python ./tools/test.py  \
  configs/rotated_retinanet/rotated_retinanet_obb_r50_fpn_1x_dota_le90.py \
  checkpoints/SOME_CHECKPOINT.pth --format-only \
  --eval-options submission_dir=work_dirs/Task1_results
```
or
```shell
./tools/dist_test.sh  \
  configs/rotated_retinanet/rotated_retinanet_obb_r50_fpn_1x_dota_le90.py \
  checkpoints/SOME_CHECKPOINT.pth 1 --format-only \
  --eval-options submission_dir=work_dirs/Task1_results
```

You can change the test set path in the [data_root](../../configs/_base_/datasets/dotav1.py) to the val set or trainval set for the offline evaluation.
```shell
python ./tools/test.py \
  configs/rotated_retinanet/rotated_retinanet_obb_r50_fpn_1x_dota_le90.py \
  checkpoints/SOME_CHECKPOINT.pth --eval mAP
```
or
```shell
./tools/dist_test.sh  \
  configs/rotated_retinanet/rotated_retinanet_obb_r50_fpn_1x_dota_le90.py \
  checkpoints/SOME_CHECKPOINT.pth 1 --eval mAP
```

You can also visualize the results.
```shell
python ./tools/test.py \
  configs/rotated_retinanet/rotated_retinanet_obb_r50_fpn_1x_dota_le90.py \
  checkpoints/SOME_CHECKPOINT.pth \
  --show-dir work_dirs/vis
```



## Train a model

### Train with a single GPU

```shell
python tools/train.py ${CONFIG_FILE} [optional arguments]
```

If you want to specify the working directory in the command, you can add an argument `--work_dir ${YOUR_WORK_DIR}`.

### Train with multiple GPUs

```shell
./tools/dist_train.sh ${CONFIG_FILE} ${GPU_NUM} [optional arguments]
```

Optional arguments are:

- `--no-validate` (**not suggested**): By default, the codebase will perform evaluation during the training. To disable this behavior, use `--no-validate`.
- `--work-dir ${WORK_DIR}`: Override the working directory specified in the config file.
- `--resume-from ${CHECKPOINT_FILE}`: Resume from a previous checkpoint file.

Difference between `resume-from` and `load-from`:
`resume-from` loads both the model weights and optimizer status, and the epoch is also inherited from the specified checkpoint. It is usually used for resuming the training process that is interrupted accidentally.
`load-from` only loads the model weights and the training epoch starts from 0. It is usually used for finetuning.

### Train with multiple machines

If you launch with multiple machines simply connected with ethernet, you can simply run following commands:

On the first machine:

```shell
NNODES=2 NODE_RANK=0 PORT=$MASTER_PORT MASTER_ADDR=$MASTER_ADDR sh tools/dist_train.sh $CONFIG $GPUS
```

On the second machine:

```shell
NNODES=2 NODE_RANK=1 PORT=$MASTER_PORT MASTER_ADDR=$MASTER_ADDR sh tools/dist_train.sh $CONFIG $GPUS
```

Usually it is slow if you do not have high speed networking like InfiniBand.

### Manage jobs with Slurm

If you run MMRotate on a cluster managed with [slurm](https://slurm.schedmd.com/), you can use the script `slurm_train.sh`. (This script also supports single machine training.)

```shell
[GPUS=${GPUS}] ./tools/slurm_train.sh ${PARTITION} ${JOB_NAME} ${CONFIG_FILE} ${WORK_DIR}
```

If you have just multiple machines connected with ethernet, you can refer to
PyTorch [launch utility](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/distributed_deprecated.html#launch-utility).
Usually it is slow if you do not have high speed networking like InfiniBand.

### Launch multiple jobs on a single machine

If you launch multiple jobs on a single machine, e.g., 2 jobs of 4-GPU training on a machine with 8 GPUs,
you need to specify different ports (29500 by default) for each job to avoid communication conflict.

If you use `dist_train.sh` to launch training jobs, you can set the port in commands.

```shell
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3 PORT=29500 ./tools/dist_train.sh ${CONFIG_FILE} 4
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=4,5,6,7 PORT=29501 ./tools/dist_train.sh ${CONFIG_FILE} 4
```

If you use launch training jobs with Slurm, you need to modify the config files (usually the 6th line from the bottom in config files) to set different communication ports.

In `config1.py`,

```python
dist_params = dict(backend='nccl', port=29500)
```

In `config2.py`,

```python
dist_params = dict(backend='nccl', port=29501)
```

Then you can launch two jobs with `config1.py` and `config2.py`.

```shell
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3 GPUS=4 ./tools/slurm_train.sh ${PARTITION} ${JOB_NAME} config1.py ${WORK_DIR}
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=4,5,6,7 GPUS=4 ./tools/slurm_train.sh ${PARTITION} ${JOB_NAME} config2.py ${WORK_DIR}
```
